The narrative context is about a story the parrot told to Khojisteh. One day, the
parrot was so pensive, and Khojisteh asked the parrot about why she is so pensive,
and the parrot told Khojisteh a story about betrayal. There was a parrot with her
nestlings live together. One day, she told her nestlings that if fowlers come, the best
way to save their lives is to pretend they are dead, then the fowler will
throw them away from the nest. Therefore, they can avoid catching by fowlers. One day,
a fowler came to catch them, and young ones did what their mom said. The
fowler threw young ones as expected, and wanted to catch the parrot. Then, the parrot
told the fowler that she is a physician with perfect skills in profession, she can
help him to gain an amount of money for the rest of his life, and
the fowler seemed delightful when he heard it, and took the parrot to the King
named Roy Kamrew, who has grievous disease. When the fowler took the parrot to the
King, the King gave the fowler ten thousand dinars for his doctor parrot. The fowler
left. Then, the parrot started to cure the King. When the King was half cured,
the parrot asked the King to let her out to explore a medicine to help
the King become totally healthy. The King believed the parrot, and let the parrot out.
However, the parrot never returned to the King. Back to the parrot and Khojisteh, the
parrot was afraid about Khojisteh’s lover, whether or not he is like the parrot in
the story, whether or not he is reliable. Then, Khojisteh wanted to try her lover,
so she has gone to her gallant. As the image zoomed in, we are mainly
focus on the fowler on the tree. The fowler postures to catch the ‘mother’ parrot.
We can see from the posture, the degree of two feet seems like he is
catching something. The facial expression of the fowler is the typical look in the Mughal
paintings, as well as the degree to the sky. When the painting zoomed into the
left side, we can see there is a fox staring at baby parrots. The fox
is hidden from the tree in the corner of the Painting, and seems like the
fox is waiting for a good time to catch the baby parrots. The fox is
actually not in the story, but it appears in the image, which makes the image
more dynamic and vivid. From the left side transfer to the right side. The background
is a big tree and some grass on the ground, and the color is dark
green and looks really historical and natural. Some details are really nice, like some red
leaves, rocks, etc. That is a typical natural topic painting in that period in India.
From the first image faded into the second image, the second image is about the
following story. That is the scene of the fowler showing the King the parrot he
caught is a physician with perfect skills. The background is the Palace in Mughal Period
in India, that is really typical appearance of the palaces at that time. The color
is really bright. The large use of yellow color represents the authority and power, because
yellow is a color people prefer to use on good things. As I zoomed in
the image, the main part we should focus on is the fowler and the King.
In the image, the King is looking at the parrot, and from his facial expression,
the King looks like he is satisfied with the parrot. The King’s necklace, shoes, chair,
and other his stuff all represent his authority and power. The yellow background of him
is the best representation. As I transferred the image a little bit left, three servants
are kneeling behind the fowler and caring about what happening right now. They have similar
head position and facial expression, which is the characteristics in the paintings in Mughal Period.
The servant with yellow color cloth seems like he is higher than the rest two,
also his head position is higher than the rest two.